# zepto_sales_analysis

---
## Key Metrics

1. Essential Data Points Driving Zepto's Success
2. Total Sales: Overall revenue generated by Zepto.
3. Total Number of Items: Total quantity of items sold.
4. Average Sales: Average value per order.
5. Average Rating: Customer satisfaction rating.
6. Outlet Establishment Year: Year when outlets were established.
7. Outlet Location Type: Location of outlets (e.g., Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3).
8. Outlet Type: Type of outlet (e.g., Supermarket Type1, Supermarket Type2).
9. Outlet Size: Size of outlets (e.g., Small, Medium, High).
10. Item Type: Category of items sold (e.g., Fruits, Snacks, Frozen Food).
11. Fat Content: Fat content of items (e.g., Low Fat, Regular).
---
## Key Insights

---  Highlights from Zepto's Performance Analysis

1. Overall Growth: Zepto has stagnation growth over the quarters with respect to sales with an exceptional growth in year-quarter '2023-Q1'(~54%).
2. Customer Satisfaction: The average rating of '4' indicates high customer satisfaction.
3. Outlet Performance: 'Supermarket Type1' outlets have been the top performers in terms of total sales with a market share of ~66% and ~65% of number of items sold.
4. Item Popularity: 'Fruits and snacks' are the most popular item categories, both contributing close to 15% each to the total sales.
5. Customer Preferences: Customers in 'Tier 3' cities have shown the highest spending.
6. Type of Food: The low fat food is dominating the food category with around 64.6% of total sales.
7. Zepto Sales Analysis - Power BI Dashboard
